[DOCS-3563] Update Logs Not Showing Expected Timestamp guide (#14676)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/guide/logs-not-showing-expected-timestamp.md

  text: "How to investigate a log parsing issue?"
---

By default, when logs are received by the Datadog intake API, a timestamp is generated and appended as a date attribute. However, this default timestamp does not always reflect the actual timestamp that might be contained in the log itself. This guides walks you through how to override the default timestamp with the actual timestamp.

{{< img src="logs/guide/log_timestamp_1.png" alt="Log panel showing the log timestamp that is different from the timestamp in the message" style="width:70%;">}}

## Displayed timestamp

The log timestamp is located at the top section of the log panel. Timestamps are stored in UTC and displayed in the user's local timezone. In the above screenshot, the local profile is set to `UTC+1`, therefore the time the log was received is `11:06:16.807 UTC`.

> To check if the reason the timestamp isn't showing the expected value due to the timezone being incorrectly set, go to your [Personal Settings][1] and check the Time zone section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The timestamp may not show the expected value because the timezone is incorrectly set. To check if this is the case, go to [Personal Settings > Preferences][1] and look at the **Time zone** section.
```

If the timezone is correct, extract the timestamp from the message to override the log timestamp being shown.

## Raw logs

If your raw logs are not showing the expected timestamp in Datadog, [extract](#extract-the-timestamp-value-with-a-parser) the correct log timestamp from the raw logs and then [remap](#define-a-log-date-remapper) it.

#### Extract the timestamp value with a parser

1. Go to your [Logs Pipeline][2]. 
2. Click **Add Processor**. 
3. Select **Grok Parser** for the processor type. 

> 4. Use the [date() matcher][3] to extract the date and pass it into a custom date attribute. See the below example and also [parsing dates examples][4] for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Use the [date() matcher][3] to extract the date and pass it into a custom date attribute. See the below example, as well as [parsing dates examples][4], for details.
```

> Log example:

Author: ```suggestion
For a log example like this:
```

```
2017-12-13 11:01:03 EST | INFO | (tagger.go:80 in Init) | starting the tagging system
```

> Parsing rule example:

Author: ```suggestion
Add a parsing rule like:
```

```
MyParsingRule %{date("yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss z"):date} \| %{word:severity} \| \(%{notSpace:logger.name}:%{integer:logger.line}[^)]*\) \|.*
``` 

> The output for MyParsingRule's extraction:

Author: ```suggestion
The output for `MyParsingRule`'s extraction:
```

```
{
  "date": 1513180863000,
  "logger": {
    "line": 80,
    "name": "tagger.go"
  },
  "severity": "INFO"
}
```

The `date` attribute stores the `mytimestamp` value.

#### Define a Log Date Remapper

Add a [Log Date Remapper][5] to make sure that the value of the `date` attribute overrides the current log timestamp.

> 1. Go to your [Logs Pipeline][2].

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to [Logs Pipelines][2] and click on the pipeline processing the logs.
```

**Note**: Any modification on a Pipeline only impacts new logs as all the processing is done at ingestion.

## JSON logs

JSON logs are automatically parsed in Datadog. The log `date` attribute is a [reserved attribute][6], so it goes through preprocessing operations for JSON logs. 

In the below example, the actual timestamp of the log is the value of the `mytimestamp` attribute and not the log timestamp `Dec 13, 2017 at 14:16:45.158`.

{{< img src="logs/guide/log_timestamp_6.png" alt="Log panel showing the log timestamp which is different from the mytimestamp attribute value in the message" style="width:50%;">}}

### Supported date formats
        
To make sure the `mytimestamp` attribute value overrides the current log timestamp being shown, you must add it as a date attribute.
        
1. Go to your [Logs Pipeline][2]. 
2. Hover over Preprocessing for JSON Logs, and click the pencil icon. 
3. Add `mytimestamp` to the list of date attributes. The date remapper looks for each of the reserved attributes in the order they are listed. To ensure the date comes from the `mytimestamp` attribute, place it first in the list.
4. Click **Save**.

> There are specific date formats to follow for the remapping to work. The recognized date formats are: [ISO8601][7], [UNIX (the milliseconds EPOCH format)][8] and [RFC3164][9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are specific date formats to follow for the remapping to work. The recognized date formats are: [ISO8601][7], [UNIX (the milliseconds EPOCH format)][8], and [RFC3164][9].
```
